 D0601A 
 Native American Reservation System - pros and cons 
Discuss conditions on American Indian reservations or among Native American communities. Include the benefits and drawbacks of the reservation system. Include legal privileges and problems.
 D0602B 
 steroid use among female athletes 
Discuss the prevalence of steroid use among female athletes over the years. Include information regarding trends, side effects and consequences of such use.
 D0603C 
 wetlands value and protection 
Why are wetlands important? Where are they threatened? What steps are being taken to preserve them? What frustrations and setbacks have there been? 
 D0604D 
 anticipation of and reaction to the premier of Star Wars Episode I -- The Phantom Menace 
How did fans, media, the marketplace, and critics prepare for and react to the movie? Include preparations and reactions outside the United States.
 D0605E 
 treatment of osteoarthritis 
Describe what procedures for treatment of osteoarthritis have been attempted and the result of research on these treatments.
 D0606F 
 impacts of global climate change 
What are the most significant impacts said to result from global climate change?
 D0607G 
 civil unrest in China 
Note examples of civil unrest in China and the Chinese government's policy toward and reaction to it. Specify the causes of the unrest.
 D0608H 
 automobile safety 
What devices and procedures have been implemented to improve automobile safety? 
 D0609I 
 Israeli West Bank settlements 
What impact have Israeli settlements in the West Bank had on the Israeli/Palestinian peace process?  What are the reactions of both parties and of the international community?
 D0610A 
 home-schooling pros and cons 
What are the advantages and disadvantages of home schooling? Is the trend growing or declining? 
 D0611B 
 organic methods of pest control 
What methods or products are used to control pests for organic gardens or farms?  Include information on methods of controlling such pests as insects or fungus which do not involve the use of chemical pesticides and are accepted by organizations which certify organic produce for the marketplace.
 D0612C 
 recent developments and theories regarding autism 
What are recent developments in autism diagnosis, treatment, and research? What is thought to be the cause? What services are available to patients and families? What is the frequency of occurrence?
 D0613D 
 perceptions of Generation X 
Who were the GenXers? What were their perceived habits, preferences, characteristics, and impact?  
 D0614E 
 Quebec independence 
Describe developments in the movement for the independence of Quebec from Canada.
 D0615F 
 evolution/creationism debate 
What are the various perspectives in the U.S. public debate regarding the teaching of evolution, creation science, or intelligent design in public school science classes? What are the key points and counterpoints expressed by people who hold each of those perspectives?
 D0616G 
 terrorist attacks in Chechnya 
How have the Chechen militants elected to fight against the Russian government? What is the Russian response to the militancy and what toll is it taking on both sides? 
 D0617H 
 EgyptAir Flight 990 
What caused the crash of  EgyptAir Flight 990?  Include evidence, theories and speculation.
 D0618I 
 malaria prevention and treatment 
What efforts are being made to combat the spread of malaria and to treat those currently affected?
 D0619A 
 gays and the GOP 
Discuss the relationship between gays (homosexuals) and the Republican party. How are Republicans courting gays? How do they alienate gays? Include discussion of the Log Cabin Republicans.
 D0620B 
 school violence prevention measures 
Discuss measures that schools and school districts have taken to prevent violent occurrences and shootings, such as those in Littleton, Colorado and Jonesboro, Arkansas.
 D0621C 
 crime and law enforcement in China 
Give examples of criminal activity in China. Name those involved, if possible. What is China doing to fight crime?
 D0622D 
 spread of the West Nile virus 
Track the spread of the West Nile virus through the United States and the efforts taken to control it.
 D0623E 
 anti-smoking laws 
Describe anti-smoking laws passed or rejected world-wide which prohibit smoking in public places or work places. Include any arguments used for or against such laws.
 D0624F 
 Stephen Lawrence 
What is known about the murder of Stephen Lawrence, his killers, the actions of the government, and the reactions of the public?
 D0625G 
 types of diseases in Kenya 
What are the most prevalent diseases in Kenya and and how are they affecting the population? What is being done to combat them?
 D0626H 
 bombing of US embassies in Africa  
How were the bombings of the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania conducted?  What terrorist groups and individuals were responsible? How and where were the attacks planned?
 D0627I 
 international adoption 
What are the laws, problems, and issues surrounding international adoption by American families?
 D0628A 
 ADD/ADHD diagnosis and treatment 
Describe ADD/ADHD. How is it diagnosed? What kind of treatments are there? Discuss the controversies surrounding its treatment. 
 D0629B 
 computer viruses 
Identify computer viruses detected worldwide.  Include such details as how they are spread, what operating systems they affect, what damage they inflict, their country of origin, and their creators wherever possible.
 D0630C 
 bookselling 
What is the current status of bookselling? What challenges face traditional sellers? How are booksellers associations involved? How successful is online bookselling and how has it affected traditional sellers?
 D0631D 
 crash of the Air France Concorde 
Discuss the Concorde jet, its crash in 2000, and aftermaths of this crash.
 D0632E 
 Mongolia's foreign relations 
What is the extent and nature of Mongolia's diplomatic and economic relations with other countries?
 D0633F 
 U.S. crime trends 
Which crime categories have had increasing or decreasing trends nationally in the U.S? Which geographic areas of the U.S. have had increasing or decreasing trends for particular crime categories?
 D0634G 
 Pacific salmon conservation 
What conservation measures are being taken locally and nationally to save the salmon species in the Pacific Northwest? What is the nature of Canadian-U.S. relations on Pacific salmon fishing? 
 D0635H 
 capital punishment in Texas during Governor Bush's administration 
How has the administration of Governor George W. Bush implemented capital punishment and how are those policies viewed outside of Texas? 
 D0636I 
 issues between the UAW and American automobile manufacturers 
What are the key issues under discussion between the 3 major American automobile manufacturers and the United Auto Workers (UAW)?
 D0637A 
 solar energy around the world 
Provide reasons for using solar energy. How widespread internationally is its use and development? Discuss cooperation between nations. Which nations are the leaders in solar energy development?
 D0638B 
 NASA's Galileo Mission 
How successful was NASA's Galileo space probe mission of Jupiter?  What discoveries were made about the planet and its moons?  Include details about when the probe was launched and any troubles it may have encountered.
 D0639C 
 precursor chemicals for weapons of mass destruction (WMDs) 
What precursor chemicals are used in making WMDs? What other uses do the chemicals have, if any?  Where have the chemicals been found? What controls are placed on WMDs and/or their precursor chemicals? 
 D0640D 
 Kursk disaster 
Discuss the sinking of the Russian submarine Kursk, the attempts to save it, and salvage operations. 
 D0641E 
 global warming 
Describe theories concerning the causes and effects of global warming and arguments against these theories.
 D0642F 
 Hugo Chavez 
What have been the key policies and outcomes (good or bad) of the Venezuelan Presidency of Hugo Chavez? What supportive or critical statements or actions have come from Venezuelans or leaders of other countries?
 D0643G 
 El Nino and La Nina weather condition 
Describe the causes and effects of the El Nino and La Nina weather condition. What programs and scientific techniques are in effect to better predict and cope with the conditions?  
 D0644H 
 federal budget surplus 
What factors led to the federal budget surplus? What are the expectations for future surpluses? What have been proposed for use of the surplus?
 D0645I 
 need for low-income housing 
What are the problems facing low-income Americans in the housing market?  How are the problems being addressed?
 D0646A 
 perjury crime and punishment 
What is the definition of perjury? Is it a federal offense? How common is it and what kinds of punishments have been given?
 D0647B 
 Elian Gonzales custody battle 
Describe the custody battle between Cuban and US relatives of the boy Elian Gonzales.  Include details about how he came into the custody of his US relatives, the legal and international issues, and the resolution of the situation. 
 D0648C 
 obsessive-compulsive disorder 
What are signs of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)? What treatments have been tried and what has been effective? What other disorders are related to OCD? 
 D0649D 
 election of Vladimir Putin in 2000  
Who is Vladimir Putin, including his experience and background? What led up to his election as Russian President, and what were his actions between his election and swearing in?
 D0650E 
 former President Carter's international activities 
Describe former President Carter's international efforts including activities of the Carter Center.
